Introduction
-----------------------------------------------------------------
This is mudtwenty, a Java MUD Server and Client. For the CS C 335
at the University of Arizona, graded by Jan Smrcina. Written by:
    Michael Tremel
    Quinten Yearsley 
    Simon MacDonald 
    Aaron Morgan
    
All documents, source, licenses, and other information can be 
found on the project's website.
    http://code.google.com/p/mudtwenty/
    
Deployment and Use
-----------------------------------------------------------------
mudtwenty has two main components, its Server and Client. This 
project is implemented as an Eclipse project, and can easily be 
imported to and built using Eclipse. Alternatively, the project 
can also be built using Apache Ant, e.g.,, in the root directory:
    ant
Ant can also be used to clean the project of all compiled files:
    ant clean
There are two main entries into the Program: server.Server.main()
and client.Client.main(). While Eclipse can be used to start
both, Ant can also be used to run the program itself, both Server
and Client. e.g., in the root directory:
    ant Server
    ant Client
    
This project expects and requires Java 6. It has been developed 
and tested with Sun's Hotspot JDK, but has also been success-
fully deployed on other JVMs. The Server code is largely back-
wards compatible with Java 5. Client has more dependencies on
Java 6, though, which could be easily removed if need be.
     
Server Configuration
-----------------------------------------------------------------
There are a few user-selected options for running the Server of
mudtwenty. The configuration file exists in the server package
of the deployment, and can be hand-edited with any text editor.
Available configuration options:
    server.port: the port the server will run on
    data.root: the root of all saved server data
    data.log: the filepath to save logs from the server
    admin: a list of administrative users, with special per-
           missions (i.e., can shutdown the server). Separate 
           each user with a comma. 

Documentation
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Outside this file, there are a few other sources of documentation
for mudtwenty. All documentation is stored in the $ROOT/doc. For 
example, Javadoc is stored in 
    $ROOT/doc/javadoc.
Note that generated javadoc is not stored in SVN.

All UML can be found in 
    $ROOT/doc/uml
and the final UML that was turned-in in class can be found under
    $ROOT/doc/uml/turnin
    
For further information about special capabilities of the system, 
the design process, or specifics in the code, see the design doc.
The design doc is stored in
    $ROOT/doc/design.pdf
    
Finally, the development Wiki may provide other, useful answers:
    http://code.google.com/p/mudtwenty/w/list
