#summary Ideas for how characters might change/progress.

= Introduction =

As players progress through the game, their character should develop and gain new skills and abilities. It is important for us to decide what general scheme to use for character progression because a lot of the program will depend on it.

==D&D Model==

Many games follow the D&D model, whereby:
  * Players have some stats (STR, DEX, INT, CHA, ...) and some skills.
  * Players gain experience points, and when they have enough, they "level up".
  * Players choose classes (fighter, mage, rogue, ...) that determine what they can improve while levelling up.
  * Stats, equipment, class, and level determine how good characters are at various aspects of combat and what special abilities (spells, skills, ...) they have access to.

==Skill-based model==

However, I (Quin) advocate an alternative system whereby:
  * Players have a large number of skills (sword, blocking, weaponcrafting, destruction magic, java programming, ...) each of which has a numerical value.
  * When a skill is used, there is a chance that it will be increased.
  * All players start out with low values for their skills, but all players can increase whatever sets of skills they want by practicing whichever skills.

Advantages of the skill-based system:

  * It makes more sense. In real life, when you practice skills, you improve and learn; you don't suddenly "level up" and improve in unrelated skills.
  * It's easier and simpler to implement. Don't have to deal with different classes and special rules for each class and such.
  * It's more flexible for players. Players can have any combination of skills they want; they aren't limited to a small set of professions.